device/doc/package-readme.md, before:

# Azure IoT Hub Device Client SDK

## How to Install

```
pip install azure-iothub-device-client
```

## Feature List

Use this SDK to:

* Send event data to Azure IoT Hub
* Recieve messages from Azure IoT Hub
* Communicate with Azure IoT Hub via AMQP, MQTT or HTTP protocols
* Synchronize an Azure IoT Hub Device Twin or Module Twin with Azure IoT Hub from a device or module
* Implement Azure IoT Hub Direct Device/Module Methods on devices/modules
* Implement Azure IoT Device/Module Management features on devices/modules,
* Implement Azure IoT Edge and custom modules connecting to Edge Hub

## User Guides
* Read the [Azure IoT Fundamentals][Azure IoT Fundamentals] guide to get an overview of what Azure IoT can do.

* Read the [Azure IoT Hub][Azure IoT Hub Documentation] guide to understand how to connect devices to the Azure IoT Hub using this SDK.

* Read the [Azure IoT Edge][Azure IoT Edge] guide to understand how to bring the power of the IoT Hub "to the edge" instead of the cloud.

## Examples

Please refer to our [sample repository][Python Device SDK Sample Repository] for examples of how to use the Azure IoT Hub Device Client SDK.


[Azure IoT Fundamentals]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/iot-fundamentals/
[Azure IoT Hub Documentation]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/iot-hub/
[Azure IoT Edge]:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/iot-edge/
[Python Device SDK Sample Repository]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-python/tree/master/device/samples

Commit message:

added boost instructions to readme

device/doc/package-readme.md, after:

# Azure IoT Hub Device Client SDK

## How to Install

```
pip install azure-iothub-device-client
```

Additionally, if running on Linux or OSX:

```
apt-get install libboost-python-dev
```

For best results, ensure that your version of boost is >= 1.58

## Feature List

Use this SDK to:

* Send event data to Azure IoT Hub
* Recieve messages from Azure IoT Hub
* Communicate with Azure IoT Hub via AMQP, MQTT or HTTP protocols
* Synchronize an Azure IoT Hub Device Twin or Module Twin with Azure IoT Hub from a device or module
* Implement Azure IoT Hub Direct Device/Module Methods on devices/modules
* Implement Azure IoT Device/Module Management features on devices/modules,
* Implement Azure IoT Edge and custom modules connecting to Edge Hub

## User Guides
* Read the [Azure IoT Fundamentals][Azure IoT Fundamentals] guide to get an overview of what Azure IoT can do.

* Read the [Azure IoT Hub][Azure IoT Hub Documentation] guide to understand how to connect devices to the Azure IoT Hub using this SDK.

* Read the [Azure IoT Edge][Azure IoT Edge] guide to understand how to bring the power of the IoT Hub "to the edge" instead of the cloud.

## Examples

Please refer to our [sample repository][Python Device SDK Sample Repository] for examples of how to use the Azure IoT Hub Device Client SDK.


[Azure IoT Fundamentals]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/iot-fundamentals/
[Azure IoT Hub Documentation]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/iot-hub/
[Azure IoT Edge]:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/iot-edge/
[Python Device SDK Sample Repository]: https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-python/tree/master/device/samples
